# HotWing's guide to going deep

1. Firstly, understand that this shouldn't be rushed. It does take time to get used to the feeling and stretching girth deep. Don't expect to be able to increase internal girth as quickly as your outer ring will stretch.
2. Make sure you're clean. Use a shower shot or similar until you are sure you've rinsed out far enough inside. This alone can take a couple of hours. Check out the great [HowToCleanYourAss](https://howtocleanyourass.wordpress.com/) for some tips. Poop in the way is not only messy but it makes terrible lube, and can also block or divert the path of the dildo so it doesn't line up right.
3. Lube! Use good quality lube. X-lube or K-lube are good options. Mix up a nice medium thickness - think maple syrup, rather than treacle. If you can, use a cumtube toy or colon tube that you can take to inject loads of lube up deep as possible, but also lube as you insert & retract the toy. Basically you want to line the whole length in lube - not just have a pocket of it up deep or not deep enough. At the very least, inject a load up there and push it in ahead of the toy. Apart from the mess, you can't have too much lube.
4. Buy a long thin flexible toy like a double-ender dildo, not very fat, that you can use to practice getting the feeling of something going deep. At this point, the goal is not to stretch your girth, but to get used to the feel of it going deep.
5. Find out what angles work for you. Read up on anatomy but remember, people can be different internally. You may have better success on all-fours, on your side, on your back, etc. Experiment and find out what works easier for you. As a rule though, squatting down onto the toy is a good way to straighten things out.
6. Play as regularly as you can. Over time you will learn how to relax the various muscles needed (splenic flexure etc) to help straighten things out. Remember, force is almost never the correct option. A gentle pressure is all is needed, it will move deeper when you have everything lined up correctly.
7. Once you have got used to taking the thin toy deep without to much trouble, it's time to size up. Don't let yourself get overenthusiastic, you want something that is only just a bit fatter. You may feel a bit of stretching sensation now. Just make sure it's not a "pokey" sensation. Remember, you want to push it along the colon, not into the colon's walls at a fold.
8. Note that sometimes firmer toys can actually help a bit. They can help straighten things out more, and they you can exert a bit more control over them. I credit the "Goose" series of dildos from SI novelties for a lot of my capabilities going deep. But they are not silicone and can be unforgiving. It did take me a long time (maybe 5 or 10 years) to get used to taking them from the medium goose to the large goose. Again, don't rush it.
9. Blood. If you size up and break into new ground, you may well experience a small tear or scratch. The key is that it must remain small! A week or two off play (or more if you prefer) is probably a good idea to recover, and on your return if you find that you get a bit of pink at the beginning of play that clears up by itself think it as a warning signal, proceed but with caution. If at any point you get darker or bright red and/or it doesn't stop - seek medical advice asap. There is no shame in telling a doc what you did, at best they can check you out and put your mind at ease, and if it is serious, then any embarrassment/expense is still infinitely better than getting a deadly infection.
10. Drugs. Can be a divisive topic. My stance on this is pretty simple: Poppers in moderation, thats it. Nothing else. Poppers does help with smooth muscle relaxing, which can be good if going deep. But anything stronger, or anything that alters your inhibitions, gives you a sense of confidence, slows your reactions or especially anything that numbs or reduces pain should be strictly avoided. Some people smoke weed, or edibles, and say it's nice combo. Each to their own but personally again I think it dulls the senses and should not really be needed, especially for beginners.
11. Take care when playing with others. The deeper you go, the more care must be taken. Only you know exactly what you are feeling, and a split second of pain and reaction time could be the only warning you get that something isn't right and that may not be enough time to communicate it to someone else who is thrusting a dildo or an arm. So only play with people who you can completely trust to be safe, sane, sober and pay absolute attention to what they're doing and respect your signals/communication. As a rule, I suggest only pushing limits yourself in solo sessions - reserve play with others for things you know you can already take comfortably.
12. Enjoy yourself! Remember, you are doing this for yourself, for fun. Anything else is secondary. Don't get pressured by someone else or by what you see on the internet. Go at your own pace. And you don't _have_ to keep going if you have found a happy place.